Hotel_cancellation_-prediction
Virtually all hotels across the world encounter the problem of potential guests canceling their reservations on a regular basis. This is a problem, because when potential guests cancel their reservations, this decreases the hotel’s revenue, specifically accounts receivable. Another issue that arises is that other potential guests, that will not cancel their reservations, might lose the opportunity to book a particular stay at a hotel, if too many potential guests book their stay at a hotel, then cancel their reservation. This allows for a loss of revenue for the hotel, and a loss of a stay at a hotel for a potential guest.   If employees at a hotel were able to predict which potential guests would cancel their stay, they could avoid a loss of revenue for the hotel, and potential guests would be more likely to book a stay at a hotel.

Before preprocessing the predictors, missing values need to be dealt with. There are missing values only in the agency and children predictors, so it will be assumed that the corresponding observations did not use an agent to book their stay, or they did not have any children. Here missing values are imputed with the above value of the particular predictor as we observed the data is sorted by the dates of the reservation. Next, dummy variables must be created for each categorical variable: hotel, meal, market_segment, distribution_channel, is_repeated_guest, reserved_room_type, assigned_room_type, deposit_type, agent,  customer_type, and reservation_status. Ordinal encoding was used for the month predictor. Adding the dummy variables brought the amount of predictors up to 71. Dummy variable reservation_status_checkout is removed in the process as we observed it was causing overfitting issues when models are trained.

First, The correlations between every predictor will be explored. If predictors have a correlation of more than 0.85, they will be deleted. 10 predictors have correlations above 0.85, so they will be deleted. This leaves a total of 61 predictors. A correlation plot of the 71 predictors is below.
